---
    blog_image: /blog/blog.png
    tag: Litmus Community
    date: Aug 18, 2021
    author: Uma Mukkara
    author_image: /blog_images/blog_uma/uma_headshot.png
    author_role: CEO, ChaosNative
    author_email: uma@chaosnative.com
    author_twitter: https://twitter.com/elonmusk
    author_linkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/reidhoffman/
    title: LitmusChaos at KubeCon EU 2022
    tagline: Another big milestone in our journey towards cloud native reliability
    content:
        Litmus 2.0 comes with many Chaos Engineering platform enhancements such as a Chaos Center for centralized chaos management, well-defined control plane and execution plane boundaries, Litmus Workflows, GitOps, declarative steady-state hypothesis using Litmus probes, well-defined APIs for automation, upgraded documentation, and many more.
    ttr: 6
---

## **LitmusChaos at KubeCon EU 2022**

> One of the best things KubeCon offered was the opportunity to meet several
> contributors, maintainers, and users of LitmusChaos in person. I can vouch for
> the fact that the brainstorming exercises with these amazing folks have
> enriched the project roadmap and increased our motivation levels! It was also
> amazing to see the level of acceptance chaos engineering has gained amongst
> organizations of all sizes across domains. — Karthik S, LitmusChaos Maintainer

KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2022 saw an amazing turnout both in-person and
virtually! The event was a plethora of grandeur for the cloud-native community
and had some amazing keynotes, talks, and learnings on offer alongside a
stupendous showcase pavilion with great offerings from sponsor companies and
CNCF projects.

One such amazing project included the CNCF incubating project, LitmusChaos,
which had the maintainers and contributors in us attending the grandest stage to
amplify the word about cloud-native Chaos Engineering and resiliency. We were
keen and excited to mark the project’s presence and inculcate the audience with
learnings, updates, demos, and much more on the Litmus project which made this
year’s KubeCon an unforgettable experience.

Here’s a rundown of the highlights featuring LitmusChaos from this year’s
conference:

### **LitmusChaos Project Meeting**

The project meeting kickstarted our journey at KubeCon this year with unique
attendees from various backgrounds filling up a 4-hour affair that commenced
with maintainer Uma Mukkara introducing them to the world of Service
Reliability, the expense of outages, basics of Chaos Engineering, its
principles, its benefits in the DevOps ecosystem followed by a brief
introduction of the LitmusChaos tool, the get started guide alongside some deep
dive into Chaos orchestration and a summary of all the amazing features the
LitmusChaos arsenal possesses.

This was followed by a demo use case on injecting chaos on a sock-shop
application alongside multiple chaos scenarios that one can curate using Litmus
and a deeper dive into the project by co-maintainer Karthik S who covered
details on how one can create new experiments, the LitmusChaos architecture and
little on GitOps for Chaos Engineering.

While we were of the belief that 4 hours might be a lot of time to cover the ins
and outs of the LitmusChaos project and might end up boring the audience, it was
surprisingly otherwise to witness the audience participation and zeal in
interacting with the maintainers and asking tons of questions about the project
making the project meeting a success.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/3200/0*VplHjER3XRbZb1v0)

### **The LitmusChaos Booth**

We spent the majority of the conference around the LitmusChaos booth at the
Project Pavilion, which garnered great interest from various attendees and
personas of the conference who hopped along with vivid interest for the project
and had some great questions in mind that not just turned these encounters into
good conversations but also became points to be noted from a community
perspective.

LitmusChaos as well as the idea of Cloud-Native Chaos Engineering gaining such
massive interest is always a special feeling and testament to the fact that
Chaos Engineering has crossed the majority adoption chasm and is becoming a
mainstream reality.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/0*PrCDzNl106ImediC)

**Fast forward to the Talk:**

### **Case Study: Bringing Chaos Engineering to the Cloud Native Developers**

A massive audience of around 400 beloved folks witnessed co-maintainer Uma
Mukkara (Head of Chaos Engineering, Harness) and community member Ramiro
Berellezza (CEO, Okteto) discuss how chaos engineering can be brought to the
cloud-native developers out there and the crucial role chaos has been playing in
stepping up the cloud-native dev experience. How developers can use cloud-native
chaos tests to verify the resilience of their application even before the code
is merged. The session contained examples of Litmus chaos tests on Okteto and
showcased how developers can run them as part of the development process, rather
than just on CI.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/3200/0*KNcV54CQp7ngo8l7)

### **LitmusChaos Maintainer Track**

The Maintainer Track talks are a great opportunity for project maintainers from
various incubating and graduated projects to cover the various aspects of the
project alongside the journey, the features, the present, the roadmap ahead, and
specific use cases.

A similar thought process was followed by the maintainers of the LitmusChaos
project (Uma Mukkara, Karthik S, and Udit Gaurav) who focused on the journey of
the project till here and the roadmap ahead for the audience alongside specific
features of the project that make it community-driven and community-friendly,
and the areas of contribution that the community must look forward to in the
coming days.

In conclusion, community member Saiyam Pathak from CIVO presented an end-user
story on how CIVO as an enterprise is using Litmus to test resiliency and how it
is also helping its users use LitmusChaos with the project being up on their
marketplace.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/3200/0*s5Dq1ahPnTyjZuL5)

Check out the recording here:

**CNCF Project Announcement Blog:**

As much of a celebration as KubeCon is, it is also an opportunity for projects
to announce amazing developments happening under their project to the community.

One such massive development that LitmusChaos announced in a blog was how it
enhances developer experience to achieve cloud-native reliability and its
availability with other CI/CD platforms such as GitLab, CircleCI, Harness CI/CD,
Spinnaker and so much more.

Check out the announcement here:
[**LitmusChaos enhances developer experience for cloud-native reliability | Cloud Native Computing…** *In cloud-native computing, the applications are expected to be resilient, loosely coupled, scalable, manageable, and…*www.cncf.io](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2022/05/18/litmuschaos-enhances-developer-experience-for-cloud-native-reliability%ef%bf%bc/)

**Social Media:**

We are thankful to the community members who took to social media to talk about
the project during the conference and are glad to see the project getting such
amazing traction from the larger community.

In the end,

KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2022 was a success for the LitmusChaos community
and we can’t wait to return to KubeCon North America 2022 in October. Till then
don’t forget to check out what’s happening in the LitmusChaos community!

Be one of the stargazers of the project:
[**GitHub - litmuschaos/litmus: Litmus helps SREs and developers practice chaos engineering in a…** *Litmus helps SREs and developers practice chaos engineering in a Cloud-native way. Chaos experiments are published at…*github.com](https://github.com/litmuschaos/litmus)

Join the Slack Community to stay connected. To join the slack community please
follow the following steps:

- Step 1: Join the Kubernetes slack using the following link:
  [https://slack.k8s.io/](https://slack.k8s.io/)
- Step 2: Join the #litmus channel on the Kubernetes slack or use this link
  after joining the Kubernetes slack:
  [https://slack.litmuschaos.io/](https://slack.litmuschaos.io/)
