---
    blog_image: /blog/blog.png
    tag: Litmus Community
    date: Aug 17, 2021
    author: Uma Mukkara
    author_image: /blog_images/blog_uma/uma_headshot.png
    author_role: CEO, ChaosNative
    author_email: uma@chaosnative.com
    author_twitter: https://twitter.com/elonmusk
    author_linkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/reidhoffman/
    title: Litmus 3.0
    tagline: Another big milestone in our journey towards cloud native reliability
    content:
        Litmus 2.0 comes with many Chaos Engineering platform enhancements such as a Chaos Center for centralized chaos management, well-defined control plane and execution plane boundaries, Litmus Workflows, GitOps, declarative steady-state hypothesis using Litmus probes, well-defined APIs for automation, upgraded documentation, and many more.
    ttr: 6
---

## Another big milestone in our journey towards cloud native reliability

The LitmusChaos maintainers announced the general availability of their major
release, Litmus 2.0, today. The team has been working along with the Litmus
community for the past 6 months to beta test the new features of this release.
Many thanks to the enthusiastic response received from the community to beta
test some features. If I look back at the early days of the project and
recollect what our laid out vision for the future is, this release is a major
milestone in many ways.

### 1.0 - Easy start for cloud native chaos

Three years ago Chaos Engineering was starting to become a good choice for SREs
and DevOps. Many first timers take the route of introducing chaos as a method to
achieve reliability. LitmusChaos 1.0 made chaos easy for those who want to take
the open source approach with a hub, operator, scheduler, SDK and the Litmus
platform itself as a cloud native app.

### 2.0 - Platform for scale and collaboration

Since 1.0, it was clear to us that there will be loads of users for Chaos
Engineering and that the platform has to meet the expectations of scale and
collaboration. It was all about taking into consideration what will the users do
after they are done with the initial chaos experimentation? They want to
construct a real chaos scenario, they want to programmatically define the logic
of success or failure of the chaos test, they want to involve other team members
in this process and they want to automate the chaos test process into their
scaled systems. These thoughts laid the foundation for the 2.0 milestone a year
ago and we are here with 2.0 release with all these capabilities included.

There are lots of places where you can find the capabilities of the latest
release. Of course, the most updated one is
[https://docs.litmuschaos.io](https://docs.litmuschaos.io/).

**Here is a list of resources to know more about LitmusChaos 2.0:**

- [Litmus Docs](https://docs.litmuschaos.io/)
- [Rawkode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D0t3emVLLko)

**Learning Resources:**

- [Litmus Tutorials](https://docs.litmuschaos.io/tutorials/)
- [KataKoda](https://www.katacoda.com/litmusbot/scenarios/deploying-litmus2-0)
- [Udemy](https://www.udemy.com/course/configuring-kubernetes-for-reliability-with-litmuschaos/)

### The next steps

We are super excited about this release. It is beta tested in the field. We are
looking forward to the larger community using it and starting the feedback loop
on the new capabilities of Litmus. In addition, the continued focus on adding
more experiments to the ChaosHub will be good for the project and the community.
Application-specific chaos scenarios will be easy to write with Litmus probes
and there is potential to turn in hundreds of such experiments in the near
future.

Get started with [LitmusChaos](https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/) and share your
feedback on [K8s slack](https://slack.litmuschaos.io/).
